we begin in the ha where the
international court of justice is
preparing to hear arguments that Israel
is committing genocide in its war on
Gaza the case is being brought by South
Africa and accuses Israel of violating
the 1948 un genocide convention by
carrying out mass killings expulsions
and making statements describing
Palestinians as subhuman more than
23,000 Palestinians have been killed so
far nearly half of them children the UN
says Gaza has become uninhabitable in a
moment we'll speak to Farmer the Miller
in Petoria hanni Mahmud is in Gaza and
Stephanie deer in occupied East
Jerusalem but first to Osama bin Javid
at the Hagen Osama talk us through what
we're expecting in court
today as you can see behind me the sun
is beginning to rise over the peace
palace here in the he where this
Landmark case is shortly going to
commence where South Africa is going to
convince the international court of
justice that what it deems Israel is
doing in Gaza amounts to genocide and it
is not at this moment wanting or looking
to for the international Court to
declare it as genocide but immediately
act to stop what it deems as acts of
genocide so there is a long laid out 84
page document with hundreds of footnotes
uh where it has collected uh evidence
from uh international news organizations
NOS un reput tours on various issues
regarding this conflict on
indiscriminate bombing of civilians on
mass displacements on targeting of
facilities such as cultural centers and
health facilities on all the acts that
Israel has not just carried out but also
declared intent there's a four-page
section which looks at uh the statements
that have been made all the way from the
president to the prime minister to
various ministers in the Israeli
government where South Africa says is
not just intent but actions on the
ground
on uh today's hearing it is going to
present its case and there's going to be
a rebuttal on Friday from Israel so
there is going to be uh arguments that
are going to be presented and uh it is
expected uh that this is going to not
just uh it is it has commenced but it is
not going to be concluded before years
to come Osama what's happening outside
Court we can see people rallying behind
you carrying Palestinian Flags it looks
like
well hundreds of people have been
Gathering here at the peace Palace even
a day before this hearing was going to
commence uh protesters we've met and pro
Palestine activists who've come from all
over Europe we met people from Germany
from Spain from here in Netherlands and
other places as well they say that
they're here to show solidarity and
support to what the South Africans are
saying say that they don't see this as a
a they see this as an open and shut case
where the actions on the ground for 96
days are ample evidence that there has
been an indiscriminate bombardment of
atrocity crimes which have been carried
out by Israel they say they don't want
to just show support for South Africa
but also to say to the world which the
leaders who are supporting Israel that
this has to stop now and they are going
to continue to put pressure on everyone
so that the genocide according to them
in Gaza can stop Osama thank you very
much for that Osama bin Javid live at
the hag let's go down to Fara Miller
she's joining us from South Africa's
administrative Capital Petoria and Fara
how is this case being watched there
especially given South Africa's historic
support for the Palestinian
cause well if we look at what South
Africa the government has said uh in the
last three months they've made a number
of strong statements against what is
happening in Gaza against the Israeli
government and of course leading to this
point where uh they have taken that
Court bir to the icj accusing Israel of
genocide that move has been welcomed by
many South Africans and is well
supported uh in recent weeks uh South
Africa and recent months the government
has uh recalled his diplomatic staff
from Israel and prior to that had also
uh recalled its Ambassador and uh and
had also put forward a vote in South
Africa's Parliament uh to end relations
with Israel uh at least for the time
being until there is a ceasefire so
these are all the actions that have led
up to this point and so many South
Africans are not necessarily surprised
we've heard from the South African
government including the international
relations Minister n p who has said that
Israel has an added obligation as the
occupier of an occupied territory and
people uh to abide by the uh genocide
conventions or prevent uh genocide
including um what South Africa is
calling Collective punishment while
there are many South Africans like the
many behind us who have have come to the
Palestinian Embassy where we are to
watch proceedings uh at the court there
is also the uh Jewish Board of deputies
which says uh represents uh the Jewish
community in South Africa and it's
condemned the South African government
saying that rather than approaching the
court this is time that could be spent
in a positive way what it says a more
positive way and speaking to both sides
uh in this conflict uh it has been
critical of the South African government
uh throughout the war on Gaza their
position hasn't changed but given South
Africa's history of apartate colonialism
and and racism uh this is something that
many South Africans identify with very
strongly in terms of the subjugation of
a specific ethnic group The targeted
killings subjugation racism uh as well
as the difficulties the many
difficulties that Palestinian people are
are going through in those territories
far thank you very much for that farm of
the Miller with a view from
Petoria let's go now to hanni Mahmud he
is joining us live from Rafa in southern
Gaza and hany how do people there feel
about the case at the hag do they have
any hope that it can stop the violence
against
them
yes well so far just just from talking
to people briefly uh here just a great
deal of of of hope that is still a bit
of suspicious optimism of what's going
on they are happy and and hopeful that
finally a country like South Africa is
hearing uh their misery and suffering
and taking the perpetrators to the
international Court uh of justice and a
great deal of Hope but at the same time
it's coming coming with suspicious
optimism because they know that part of
this actions will be taken to the UN
Security Council where there's a high
possibility a country like the United
States will vet to any actions in favor
of the Palestinian just citing a past
experiences and examples of how the US V
resolution calling for a permanent
ceasefire and into the war on the Gaza
Strip so far we have a group right group
Advocates across the Palestinian
territory seeing these hearing sessions
as a as a a measures provisional
measures that that are intended to stop
the situations from getting worse across
the Gaza Strip as the war continues to
pound every means of Life across the
territory and the one priority that they
have right now is that Israel to seize
the killing of civilians and put an end
to all the atrocities committ committed
by the Israeli military and they also
are hopeful that the the topic of
occupation that Israel is still
effectively occupying a and controlling
uh the the borders and all the access
point to the G strip will be addressed
in the international uh court of justice
so far everything on the ground suggest
and fit within the allegations of war
crimes submitted by South Africa to the
international court of justice and what
we're talking about is the ongoing
constant killings and the Ming of
civilians and the the forc displacement
and the failure of the Israeli military
and its government to provide safe place
for displace for the 1.5
Millions displac Palestinian addition
the intentional and attacks on hona
United Nations for p facilities
including evacuation centers and schools
and the obliteration of Civic life all
fits the characterization and the
definition of war crimes committed so
far in the Gaza Strip Hy thank you very
much for that hany mm joining us live
from Rafa in southern Gaza and Let's
cross live now to Stephanie DEA she is
an occupied East Jerusalem and Stephanie
Israel denying the allegations as we
expect but it is taking them very
seriously very seriously um Israeli
media had quoted last week that uh
cables were sent to All embassies uh
urging their diplomats to Lobby
governments uh to get their support in
rejecting uh this case and also saying
that they need to be more vocal in terms
of uh showing the world that they're
trying to get humanitarian Aid in um
Israel is going to be very keen to
remind the world of the atrocities that
Hamas carried out on October the 7th
Israel saying that it's the victim that
it is in self-defense of and that it's
doing its utmost to try and prevent
civilian casualties you even had the
Israeli Prime Minister come out late
last night in an English statement um
posted online uh very much a message to
the International Community saying that
it had no intention of reoccupying Gaza
it had no intention of forcibly
displacing civilians and it did
everything to prevent um to prevent that
of course we're talking over
23,000 casualties most of those
civilians now South Africa's case which
is just about to be heard in the next
hour or so does take all of that in
consideration in the sense that it
doesn't just start on October the 7th it
goes back decades It quotes multiple
reports un reports um going back that
shows that what is simp what is
happening has been a pattern of
occupation a pattern of Oppression a
pattern of dehumanization that has
culminated and escalated to some of its
worst um after October the 7th so that's
going to take around 3 hours we from
South Africa tomorrow we'll be hearing
from Israel also we understand some of
the families of some of the hostages
have arrived at the he to be there as
well again Israel very keen to remind
the world um of the events of October
the 7th and it of course says it is uh
carrying all of this out in
self-defense Stephanie thank you very
much for that that is Stephanie deer
live in occupied East
Jerusalem